[SOUND] We are going to introduce a very important property of frequent patterns, which is called the Downward Closure
Property of Frequent Patterns. Let's look at this simple
transaction database TDB 1, it contains only two transactions,
T sub 1 and T sub 2. Suppose we get frequent
itemsets a1 to a50, then we actually can clearly see
all its subsets like a1, a2, or a1, a2 as a item set,
they're all frequent. Then you may wonder,
there must be some interesting hidden relationships among
different frequent itemsets. Actually there is a one called
downward closure property of frequent patterns which is
also called the Apriori property. Okay, now let's look at this. Suppose we know {beer, diaper,
nuts}, this itemset is frequent. Obviously, beer and
diapers should be frequent as well, because any transaction which
contains beer, diaper, and nuts must also contain beer and
diaper as a itemset. That's why the beer,
diaper as an itemset should be at least as frequent as beer, diaper, and nuts. So we can easily derive this property so that any subset of a frequent
itemset must be frequent, if we keep the minimum
support ratio as the same. So in that context, we can derive
a efficient mining methodology. The general philosophy is,
if you find an itemset S, any of its subset is infrequent. Then, there's no chance for S to become
frequent because based on this Apriori property, then we do not even
have to consider to mine S. This actually turns out to be
a sharp knife for pruning. So, this Apriori Pruning, based on this, it generates quite a lot of
Scalable Pattern Mining Methods. So the first Apriori Pruning
principle was discovered by Rakesh Agrawal and
Srikant in VLDB 1994. [INAUDIBLE] Mannila in KDD'94 workshop
also generates a similar methodology. The methodology generally
says if there's any subset, any itemset which is infrequent, then its superset should not even being
considered and not even being generated. Based on this, there are three major
approaches develop in subsequent studies. One essentially is Apriori,
the first representative work was published in VLDB 1994 called
level-wise join-based approach. Another method was developed by Zaki and
[INAUDIBLE] and what they got called Eclat is
based on vertical data format. Then the cert approach is
essentially pattern based. It's frequent pattern projection
growth is pattern growth approach. Called api growth,
developed by us in year 2000. [MUSIC]