[SOUND] The first thing we want to discuss is, The Limitation of
the Support Confidence Framework. As we know, pattern mining may
generate a large number of rules but not all of the patterns and
rules generated are interesting. In general we can classify the interesting
measures into two classes, objective versus subjective. For objective measure like support,
confidence, correlation are defined
by mathematical formulas, not change from person to to person. But the subjective measure may
change from person to person, because one man's trash could
be another man's treasure. So the first thing, is we may want
a user to say, what do you like to see? So it's query based. Another thing is we may base
on user's knowledge base, try to mine something unexpected,
fresh or recent. Or we can map patterns and
rules into two-dimensional space, let user to interactively
pick some interesting things. So we know we have support and confidence as two interestingness
measures in association rules. So we may be careful about this,
because not all the strong support and
confidence rules are interesting. For example, take the following table,
a 2-way contingency table, to look at this to see how to
interpret things we found. For example, in this table, 400 out
of 1000 students play basketball and eating cereal, but 200 students, they play
basketball but they may not eat cereal. In this one,
you may derive association rule like this. Playing basketball implies eating cereal. You probably will get a 40% support
because it's 400 over 1,000. You will get two thirds of the confidence
because you get 400 over 600. So this is pretty high support and
confidence. Is this really interesting? Let me try another rule regenerated. Actually you will see, if we say not
playing basketball, eating cereal. You will see not playing basketball is
35%, with the confidence even higher, because they have 350 eating
cereal out of 400 people. So this one is even higher. So, if you recommend these two
rules to the cereal company, they will get confused. They'll say, the first rule say that
I better give some free basketball because if they play basketball,
eating cereal. The second rule say I better
take their basketball away, because if they do not play basketball
they actually eat cereal even more. Which one is right? Let's examine it. [MUSIC]