[SOUND]
Now we come down to study another interesting issue called
mining quantitative associations. What is quantitative association? Quantitative association
means some attributes after a numerical data like age and
a salary. So how to mine such rules? There's one way is we can
do static discretization. The reason we need to do static
discretization is if you do not discretize them, you're trying to parallelized
every possible age and a salary. You will not be able to
find any interesting or sensitive rules with sufficient support. But if we try to say,
we partition age every ten years, or partition income every
$10,000 using some predefined concept of hierarchy, we are going to
be able to construct a data cube and we're going to be able to generate
some interesting association. But this fixed, predefined concept hierarchy may
not fit your data distribution. For example, in the university, likely you may want to
partition the age for students. You may say it's 18 to 20,
20 to 22, or something like that. But for income, you may say $10,000
is one partition or low and high. But if you go to hospital, their age distribution you may like
to say middle age or old or young. So another way is we do
clustering based on data. That means we take every dimension,
we study their distribution of the age and income, we perform certain clustering
algorithm, generate a few clusters, and then we find the parallelized frequent
pattern of each such cluster of pairs. Then finally there's also popular
ways to do deviation analysis. That means instead of
doing fixed interval, we may do based on certain
condition like gender is female. We may find their mean or a median or
something, some statistic measure, you will find if the wage mean
is substantially deviated from the overall mean,
then this could be an interesting rule. Let's go a little further to see
how to find some such deviation. We also call extraordinary or
interesting phenomena. Usually for this we may say the left-hand
side is a subset of the population and the right-hand side is some kind of
extraordinary behavior expressed using some statistical measure which
could deviate from the overall. Then the rule, whether is true rule or
is just a very exceptional case, we need to do some statistic test,
like a Z-test, to confirm whether such kind
of rule is of high confidence. Further, in many cases, you may even want to go deeper to
get a subset of the population, for example, not only look at the gender as
female, but look at the location as south. You may get the wage could further
deviate from the overall mean, or even from the bigger rule
like a gender is female. So that subrule could become
a extraordinary subrule associated with its super rule. For example, sometimes you do not have the
left-hand side as a subset of population, but based on numerical data you can group
them into certain intervals or clusters. For example, the left-hand
side could be if the education has pretty many years,
like 14 to 18 years, and you will find the mean wage actually
is substantially higher than the mean, so that may form another
interesting quantitative rule. Efficient methods actually have
been developed to mine such extraordinary rules. For example,
one research paper published by Aumann and Lindell@KDD'99 is a very interesting case
study of a very interesting algorithm. [MUSIC]