[SOUND] Now, I'm going to introduce an interesting algorithm called GSP, that's Apriori-Based Sequential
Pattern Mining mass search. This mass search is pretty simple. You start from a sequence database. Then you first try to get the singleton
sequences like the first one appears. That means you scan database once,
you count every single item that occurred in every sequence. Then you can see a occurs three times,
occurs five times. So if you said min_sup = 2, likely g and h will be gone
because their support is only 1. Then you find frequent lens one
subsequent a, b, c, d, e, f. With this you can combine
them as candidate sub-sequences, you may have aa,
ab, ac, ba, bb, bc remember, aa is still important means,
you first buy aa then, buy another a. Then, for the, for the shopping basket,
you may get ab together. That's why you may have ab is one event,
one element, ac is another element. You may get these kind of subsequences. In total, you look at six by six, then
you get it no six by five divided by two, you will get this number of
candidate size two sequence. But without Apriori, without this pruning,
you'll get much more. So even this minimal pruning still can
reduce search space substantially. So in general,
we can work out the algorithm like this. You put this one into a loop. At the very beginning, you can scan to
find length k, which is length one, frequent sequence. Then, based on the Apriori you
can generate the length two or length k plus one, candidate sequence. then you can go back to check and
find the real frequent sequence, then you go back to the Apriori
based candidate generation. So generation test, you can go into
the loop until no frequent sequence or not candidates can be found. So if you look at the execution
sequence for this particular dataset, you will find, at the very
beginning you get a, b, c, d, e, f. And g, h, will be gone. They are painted in blue. So then you can, from here you can go up, get a frequent length-2 sub-sequences. Then you can generate lengths three,
length four, length five, and here, you cannot go along anymore. So, this is the GSP algorithm [MUSIC]