Now we are going to discuss another
interesting pattern mining applications called Mining Quality Phrases
from Text Data. We encounter massive
unstructured text data. To get knowledge out of text data, a very
important thing is mining quality phrases. We will discuss how we do it from mining
frequent patterns to mining phrases. We'll reintroduce some previous
phrase pattern mining methods, then we are going to discuss two interesting
new algorithms developed by those. Many of my students,
they are ToPMine and SegPhrase. ToPMine is mining phrases
without training data, and SegPhrases by introducing
tiny training data sets you can further enhance
the phrase mining quality. Let's first study why we want to get from
frequent pattern mining to phrase mining. The first question you may ask is
why we want to do phrase mining. Actually, if we think every word
is a unigram, and then phrases actually are a set of consecutive words
made from some meaningful semantic unit. We probably can see, for single words, or
we call unigrams, they're often ambiguous. For example, when you say united,
people often do not know you mean United States or
United Airlines or United Parcel Service? However, once you present them
as a phrase like United States, or United Airlines,
these kind of phrases are actually natural meaningful and
unambiguous semantic units. That means if we want automatically
transform text data to some meaningful sentences or
to some meaningful analysis structures, the first important thing is mining
semantically meaningful phrases? This would transform
text data analysis from word granularity to phrase granularity. This will enhance the power and efficiency
and manipulating unstructured data. However why we want to start
with frequent pattern mining? The general principle is we want to
explore information redundancy and use data-driven criteria to
determine phrase boundaries and the salience instead of using laws
of curation and training data set. The general methodology is
to explore three ideas. One is frequent pattern mining and
a colocation analysis. The second one is explore phrasal
segmentation in documents. The third one is we will have some
quality phrase assessment criteria. Using this,
we will be able to work out efficient and effective phrase mining methods, okay. We are going to introduce two interesting
methods developed just recently. One is ToPMine, is mining quality
phrases without training date. This one was developed by
Ahmed El-Kishky and his collaborators. The second one was SegPhrase, is mining
quality phrases with tiny training sets has been developed by Jialu Liu and
his collaborators.