[SOUND]
In this session, I'm going to introduce you another
interesting applications of Pattern Discovery called
Pattern Discovery for Image Analysis. We know image analysis or computer vision, there have been lots
of technology developed in this field. Then for, there's one
interesting recent line of work is using visual pattern
discovery to do image analysis. We can take this picture as a example. For this image, we may find
there are many interest points. These interest points we
call visual primitives. Every visual primitives can be described
by a set of visual features or you can think is a high
dimension feature vector. And then, each image is
a collection of visual primitives. Then, we will study how to turn those
visual primitives into patterns and how to do pattern minning
on large number of images. So that means we want to study
visual pattern discovery problem. For visual pattern discovery,
we can think about it from this images. We can use feature extraction. We can extract lots of high dimension
features, they form visual primitives. Those visual primitives can be clustered, based on their space they may
cluster into visual items, okay? Those visual items, if they are similar,
then they belong to the same item. You can map them into different item ID,
for example. You can map this feature into W, and maybe another picture I have of similar
one, they actually also called W, okay? Then each visual primitive, they can have,
based on that k-nearest-neighbor, they can form small clusters, and those
we usually called them a transaction. For example,
you may find these three visual primitives can form a transaction
like CBA as a transaction. Then an image may have many transactions,
okay, in every image. Then if there are many, many images,
you may, based on their transactions, you do the frequent pattern mining, you
will be able to find some visual patterns. For example, in these pictures,
you may find a BA and CA, actually are quite frequent
together in those transactions. So you can say, B and CA or
CBA are frequent patterns, are the frequent visual
patterns in those images. So the simple example could be this,
suppose we have four pictures. Each picture you may find note, certain
primitives, visual primitives from items. Those items based on
the k-nearest-neighbor, they form transactions. Then for this car,
you may find the two transactions here, G12 and G13, okay? Then they contain a set of items, EDABC, could be the transactions
containing those items. Each item actually is a set of visual
primitives from the items, okay? But if you do frequent pattern mining,
you may find among those images, you can get an AB as frequent item set and actually these AB wrapped in something
related to the wheels of the car. So that's a reason those frequent
pattern mining can help identify certain unique features
in different images. So then the interesting thing could be, because images are spatial data,
then spatial configuration does matter. Then because sometimes those
transactions spatially very close, they may overlap each other. Then they may have over counting problem. For example, this AB actually in this
image, there is only one such AB pattern. But since based on your feature
image there, clustered together, you get two transactions, you actually
count AB twice in this picture, okay? So, there's a over counting problem. Another problem encountered in this visual
pattern discovery is uncertainty problem. Because you may have some,
like those wheels can be partially occluded
by other objects or mixed with other objects,
we have lots of noise, okay? Some feature you may
not be able to detect. Another is visual synonym and
polysemy problem that essentially is sometimes the same feature actually
may erupt in different objects or one object can be represented by
different kinds of feature sets, okay? So we need to revise our frequent pattern discovery algorithm
to handle these over counting problem, uncertainty problems, synonym and
the polysemy problems. Actually, there are interesting studies in
computer vision community, they developed some interesting visual pattern discovery
methods for images and video data. So if you are interest in this, I would recommend you study those research papers to gain your
knowledge to certain depths. [MUSIC]