Now we come down to the very last
session of this lecture which is also the very last session of this
short course, Looking Forward. We have studied a lot of
pattern discovery methods, some advanced concepts,
some algorithms and lots of applications. We'll probably see there are lots
of interesting issue to be studied from the first paper in this field, like 1993 up to now year 2015,
we introduced various kinds of research discoveries and
methods, even last until today. So this is still interesting research and
application domain in data mining. So what we want to
emphasize is how we further build up a new applications using
invisible pattern mining approach. What is invisible pattern mining? It's you build this pattern mining
measures into various kinds of functions, like a search function, ranking function,
recommendation, or other mining functions. Sometimes when people search the web, the may not know they implicitly
are using pattern mining results. For example, we haven't seen
we're studying classification, there are so many classification methods. But definitely, frequent, and discriminative-pattern mining
could be an interesting contribution to the different repositories of
the methods on classification. Then we also studied a graph indexing and
a similarity search. When you do indexing you do search,
you do various kind of retrieval, you may use index constructive
by pattern analysis. Then even for pattern mining we may
first mine frequent patterns and doing topic modeling then we can get
lots of interesting premises and features for effective text mining. When people doing software analysis, you
may use pattern mining methods to discuss lots of bugs or
software specification regularities and patterns, which may help us
to find bugs in software. For spatiotemporal trajectory or
moment pattern mining, you may see the frequent pattern
analysis can be an interesting method added to this set of weapons. Then for image mining, multimedia data
mining, like a video-audio analysis, the pattern analysis could be an implicit
approach method built inside. Even for biological and chemical data
analysis, like analyze DNA sequences or biological graphs, lots of pattern
mining may be used as primitives. Even in clustering for example we are going to study clustering
in data mining in this course. I'm going to introduce you
subspace clustering, which actually frequent pattern mining will
become another interesting technique for subspace clustering. Even people search the web or
make a recommendation of your products, or study click streams
to enhance your search. The pattern mining may play
an important role in this. So, you probably can see pattern
mining can be applied in many, many different domains. So, this invisible pattern mining
could be very important taking this as a pre-processing of some
component in your whole analysis package. So we are facing very big data,
we're facing lots of challenges but the pattern mining surely is a tool. So I hope by learning this course,
you will become part of research and development force to push
pattern mining into new era on post research and applications. Hopefully in the future in your work, you may find using the material
learned from this course. You're going to develop some
interesting functions and push the technology into
application into the new frontier. Thank you. [MUSIC]