[SOUND]
Hi, in this session, I'm going to give you a brief overview
of user insights and clustering. Usually, users may have some
interesting insights or views. User may like to interact
with the clustering process, to influence the final
results of clustering. One interesting one is visual insights, because a picture is
worth a thousand words. Human eyes are actually powerful,
high-speed processors. Because they are also linked
with rich knowledge base. So, a human can provide
a lot of intuitive insights whether this clustering result is good or something they desired is not achieved
based on the current clustering result. Okay, there's usually user's
good to one or two dimensional, at most 3D,
they may be able to find clusters. Their algorithms, for
example, High D eyes, how to visualize high
dimensional clusters. The second one is
semi-supervised insights, that means user may have certain insights
or intention on the clustering process. They may like to pass their
insights to the system to influence the results of the clustering. For example,
user may provide some seeding. That means you can provide
a number of labeled examples or some approximate representation
of the categories of interest. Then you may like
the clustering process to take your insight to do
some desired clustering. The third one is multi-view and
ensemble-based insights. So-called multi-view clustering
is different clustering may generate different perspectives. The multiple clustering, you can ensemble them together
to provide more robust solution. Finally, a very important one
is validation-based insight. That means,
you may want to evaluate the quality of the clusters generated based
on certain validation methods. For example, you may use case studies or
you may provide specific measures, or you may provide some
preexisting labels. All of these, we're going to
discuss in detail in some chapter. Finally, I provide a few reference books. And especially the chapter
By Charu Aggarwal. An Introduction to
Clustering Analysis is a very nice introduction on general
ideas of clustering analysis. Thank you. [MUSIC]