[MUSIC] Basic concepts means how to measure
similarity between objects. Since clustering is
an unsupervised learning process, so we do not have predefined levels
to judge whether it's right or wrong. So how can we judge
a clustering process is good? That means whether it will
produce high-quality clusters. Usually, we keep two measures,
one called high intra-class similarity, the other called low
inter-class similarity. What is high intra-class similarity? That means you want to see
the objects within the same cluster, they are rather similar,
they are cohesive. You also want to see
inter-class similarity is low in the sense you want to see
the objects in different clusters. They are rather dissimilar,
or they are distinctive. So to measure this, we need some separate quality function
to measure how good a cluster it is. However, it is hard to define
what is similar enough or good enough and the answer usually
could be quite subjective. That's the reason we want to look
at different similarity measures or the similarity functions for different
applications, but they are critical for cluster analysis. For terminologies, people actually
want to distinguish a quite interesting similar things
called similarity measure, dissimilarity measure,
or proximity measure. What is similarity measure or
similarity function? Usually, similarity function
is a real value function to quantify the similarity
between two objects. Usually the higher value,
it means more similar. So the value range is 0 to 1. 0 means there's no similarity. 1 means they are completely similar,
or they are identical. Then similar to similarity,
many people want to use dissimilarity, or distance measure. Distance measure or distance function
is a new micro measure to measure how different these two objects are. To some extent, dissimilarities,
inverse of similarities, that means the lower or
the shorter the distance, the more alike. The minimum dissimilarity is 0, means
there are completely similar or identical. The value range could be either 0 to 1 or
0 to infinity based on the definition. Another term called proximity, this is usually referred to either
similarity or dissimilarity. [MUSIC]