[SOUND] In this session, we examine more detail on divisive clustering algorithms. We already introduced a general
concept of divisive clustering. Essentially is,
we start from a big single macro-cluster, and we try to find how to split
them into two smaller clusters. We continue doing this, finally, every
single node become a singleton cluster. Okay. So, this method,
actually described in Kaufmann and Rousseeuew's 1990 book,
called DIANA or Divisive Analysis, is also implemented in some
statistic packages, such as Splus. This is essentially inverse of AGNES. That means you start from bigger cluster,
you start splitting them continuously, recursively, finally you'll find that
each one is a single, singleton cluster. Divisive clustering is
a top down approach, because you start from all
the points as one cluster, then you'll recursively split the high level
cluster to build the dendogram, okay? It can be considered as a global approach. It is more efficient,
when compared to agglomerative clustering. Because you don't have much choice. You just decide every point. You just decide how to split,
and you do it recursively. But we will see how
which cluster to split. If you have multiple clusters now,
you can check the sum of the squared errors of the clusters,
and see which one is the largest one. That you, then simply say, this one is not
a very good, you, you want to split them. You want to reduce the sum of
the squared error, overall. Then, once you decide to split this
cluster, then, how do you split it? Okay.
Actually, you may try to split, in many ways. For that you can use Ward's criterion we
just introduced, to see which one, which split, give you the greatest reduction
in the difference of the SSE criterion. Then you choose that one to split. For categoric data we can use
Gini-index in a similar way. Then, the third issue is
how to handle the noise. Essentially, when you decide to split, you don't want to split into too
small cluster, mainly contain noises. That means you need to use a threshold to
determine the termination criterion, okay? So, these are the major issues,
that design divisive clustering. [MUSIC]