[SOUND] Hi, in this session we
are going to introduce another expansion to hierarchical
clustering method called CURE: clustering using well-scattered
representative points. And it was done by a group of
researchers at Bell Labs in 1998. CURE actually represents a cluster using a set of well scattered
representative points. Let's look at the details of the CURE. Actually, for CURE, the first interesting
thing is redefining the clustering distance to be the minimum distance
between the representative points chosen. But how to choose representative points? Actually is you can consider each group, you may have some points which is closer
to the center of this group of data. You can consider this as
a representative point of this group. Okay? Then for this group of data,
their distance between the clusters actually is their minimum distance
between the represented points. This actually incorporate the ideas
of both single link and average link. Single link in the s, in the sense that
you still look at the minimum distance of, between clusters, but
you do not look at every point. You look at the representative. This is the literal, like,
average link, or centroid link. Because we choose those scatter points, it will help CURE capture
the cluster of arbitrary shapes. Because you can see if
you get different shapes, you look at the representative
points some particular shape, actually the, the representative point,
it will reduce the complexity. Okay. Another interesting point is,
if you use a shrinking factor, alpha. That means that the points
actually are shrink towards a centroid by a factor alpha. Okay.
For, for example you can see the, left side, okay,
this group you can find these red points, a set of representative points. Then, we look at the centroid
of these points. You actually shrink this group of
points toward the centroid, so you probably can see these red points
actually shrank towards the center. Once it's shrank, it has a greater effect
to outliers than to the normal points. Because of the outlier, even you have
a chance to find outliers pretty far away from this and you take it
as a rate, representative point. Because it is far away from
the center with this factor alpha, it will shrink dramatically
towards the center, okay? That's why the outlier,
effect will be minimized, okay? So, you probably can see, with this,
map, transformation, okay? It improves the efficiency and, and
it moreover improved the effectiveness. Actually the paper also taking a set of the points you know form
into different shapes. You'll probably see if you use
a typical like a k-mean space approach you're going to find
the cluster in the center. You'll find a very ugly shape. And, these kind of clusters we're, actually getting into you know,
these ugly shaped cluster, we're painting those connected objects
into different clusters, different colors. However, using, using CURE,
we will be able to find very nice, you know, group the points you
perceive all these shapes, those points, closer together
even it is not a spherical shape. You'll still find very nice clusters. That's a power of CURE. [MUSIC]