[MUSIC] We first introduced STING,
the first grid based method which is statistic information
in the grid structure. This method called statistic
information grid approach. Essentially you can think the gray
structure looks like this. You got multiple layers. That means the spacial area's
defined into rectangular cells at the different levels of revolution. Then these cells actually
form a tree structure. That means each cell at a higher layer, each cell actually store a summary
of the lower level set of cells. That means the cell at a higher level
contains a number of small cells of the next lower level. To that extent,
it forms a hierarchical tree structure. What the cell will store, statistical
information of each cell that is calculated and stored beforehand and
then can be used to answer queries. That means you can calculate
the statistical information that is corresponding set of
cells at the lower layer. Then the parameter of the higher level
cells, the calculation contains a bunch of statistical information including number
of points in the cell which is a count. Then their mean, their standard deviation, the minimum value, the maximum value and
also the type of distribution. For example whether these points
form a normal distribution, a uniform distribution or
other kinds of distributions. So if we store the cell
in a hierarchical way, to process a region query
including finding clusters, we can start at the root
of this grid structure. And proceed to the next lower level
using this STING indexing structure. That means we can calculate the likelihood
a cell is relevant to the query at some confidence level using the statistical
information stored in the cell. Once we are confident, we need to go down, only children of the likely relevant
cells are recursively explored. So it is quite localized,
it could be quite efficient. We can repeat this process until
the bottom layer is reached. The advantage is this structure
is query-independent. And the process can be easily paralyzed
and we can do incremental update as well. Also the efficiency is very good. That means the complexity
is quite low because if the K is number of grid
cells at the lowest level. Then the complexity is big O linear to K, where K is much less than N,
the number of data points. However, it's disadvantages,
because you formed a grid structure, you may lose a lot of details. The probabilistic nature
of the higher level may imply a loss of accuracy in the lower
level for query processing. [MUSIC]